Explanation: A transaction is a group of statements to perform single or multiple tasks in a database.
Each transaction must happen two things in SQL:

Either all modification is successful when the transaction is committed.
Or, all modifications are undone when the transaction is rollback.


An equijoin is a join in which the equal comparison operator is used to match the keys of both tables. 
In contrast, outer join is a join where rows in one table that do not have a matching row in another table are 
selected with NULL values 
for the unknown columns.


Quest- the trigger is a set of SQL statements that resides in system memory with unique names 
and is executed automatically when a database server event occurs.

Quest-
Referential integrity specify a relation between two tables. Each table must have a primary key. 
It is also called subset dependencies because the set of foreign
key values in table1 of table2 must be a subset of the set of primary key values in table2.

Quest-
A privilege allows users to perform a set of activities on a particular database object.
Privileges are divided into two categories:

System Privileges: This indicates that the user has the ability to CREATE, ALTER, or "DROP" database components.
Object Privileges: This enables the user to EXECUTE, SELECT, INSERT, or DELETE data from database objects with privileges.


10) In the data type TIME(p), what does p stands for?
The SQL TIME data type represents a day's time using a 24-hour clock. The p indicates the number of digits for
the fractional part of the seconds. Its value ranges from 0 to 7.
If we do not specify the p, it will be 7 by default. Hence option (C) is the correct answer.

11.9) Which of the below sequential statements cannot be used in a function?
A function can use any type of sequential statements, such as an IF, CASE, LOOP, NEXT, EXIT, or NULL statement.
However, it has one exception: it does not allow to work with WAIT statement because 
it cannot be used inside a function. The WAIT statement is used to schedule system work.

12.A transaction has a statement to begin and end both. It starts when one of the following events takes 
place CREATE, COMMIT, ROLLBACK, etc.

7.Whenever a database is modified, the system executes a statement called _________.

Function
Trigger
Package
Protocol

A trigger is a set of SQL queries that reside in a system catalog. It is a special type of stored procedure 
that is invoked automatically in response to an event. Hence, 
option (B) is correct because the trigger is a statement that the system executes whenever a database is modified.

