1) What is SQL?
SQL stands for the Structured Query Language. SQL is a standard query language used for maintaining the relational database and 
perform many different operations of data manipulation on the data. SQL initially was invented in 1970. It is a database language used for database
creation, deletion, fetching rows and modifying rows, etc. sometimes it is pronounced as 'sequel.'

2) When SQL appeared?
It appeared in 1974. SQL is one of the often used languages for maintaining the relational database. SQL. In 1986 SQL become the standard of American 
National Standards Institute (ANSI) and ISO(International Organization for Standardization) in 1987.

3) What are the usages of SQL?
SQL is responsible for maintaining the relational data and the data structures present in the database.
To execute queries against a database
To retrieve data from a database
To inserts records in a database
To updates records in a database
To delete records from a database
To create new databases
To create new tables in a database
To create views in a database
To perform complex operations on the database.
4) Does SQL support programming?
SQL refers to the Standard Query Language, which is not actually the programming language. SQL doesn't have a loop, Conditional statement, logical operations,
it can not be used for anything other than data manipulation. It is used like commanding (Query) language to access databases. The primary purpose of SQL is to retrieve,
manipulate, update and perform complex operations like joins on the data present in the database.

5) What are the subsets of SQL?
There is three significant subset of the SQL:

Data definition language (DDL):DDL is used to define the data structure it consists of the commands like CREATE, ALTER, DROP, etc.
Data manipulation language (DML):DML is used to manipulate already existing data in the database. The commands in this category are SELECT, UPDATE, INSERT, etc.
Data control language (DCL):DCL is used to control access to data in the database and includes commands such as GRANT, REVOKE.

 
6) What is a Data Definition Language?
Data definition language (DDL) is the subset of the database which defines the data structure of the database in the initial stage when the database is 
about to be created. It consists of the following commands: CREATE, ALTER and DELETE database objects such as schema, tables, view, sequence, etc.

7) What is a Data Manipulation Language?
Data manipulation language makes the user able to retrieve and manipulate data. It is used to perform the following operations.

Insert data into database through INSERT command.
Retrieve data from the database through SELECT command.
Update data in the database through UPDATE command.
Delete data from the database through DELETE command.
8) What is Data Control Language?
Data control language allows you to control access to the database. DCL is the only subset of the database which decides that what part of the database
should be accessed by which user at what point of time. It includes two commands GRANT and REVOKE.

GRANT: to grant the specific user to perform a particular task

REVOKE: to cancel previously denied or granted permissions.

9) What are tables and fields in the database?
A table is a set of organized data. It has rows and columns. Rows here refers to the tuples which represent the simple data item and columns are the 
attribute of the data items present in particular row. Columns can categorize as vertical, and Rows are horizontal.

A table contains a specified number of the column called fields but can have any number of rows which is known as the record. So, the columns in the 
table of the database are known as the fields and they represent the attribute or characteristics of the entity in the record.

10) What is a primary key?
A primary key is a field or the combination of fields which uniquely specify a row. The Primary key is a special kind of unique key. Primary key values 
cannot be NULL. For example, the Social Security Number can be treated as the primary key for any individual.

11) What is a foreign key?
A foreign key is specified as a key which is related to the primary key of another table. A relationship needs to be created between two tables by
referencing foreign key with the primary key of another table. Foreign key acts like a cross-reference between tables as it refers to the primary key of other table and the primary key-foreign key relationship is a very crucial relationship as it maintains the ACID properties of database sometimes.

12) What is a unique key?
Unique key constraint uniquely identifies each record in the database. This key provides uniqueness for the column or set of columns.

The Unique key cannot accept a duplicate value.

The unique key can accept only on Null value.

13) What is the difference between primary key and unique key?
Primary key and unique key both are the essential constraints of the SQL, but there is a small difference between them

Primary key carries unique value but the field of the primary key cannot be Null on the other hand unique key also carry unique
value but it can have a single Null value field.

14) What is a Database?
A Database is an organized form of data. The database is the electronic system which makes data access, data manipulation, data retrieval, 
data storing and data management very easy and structured. Almost every organization uses the database for storing the data due to its easily 
accessible and high operational ease. The database provides perfect access to data and lets us perform required tasks.

The Database is also called a structured form of data. Due to this structured format, you can access data very easily.

15) What is DBMS?
DBMS stands for Database Management System. This is a program which is used to control them. It is like a File Manager that manages data in a database 
rather than saving it in file systems.

Database management system is an interface between the database and the user. It makes the data retrieval, data access easier.

Database management system is a software which provides us the power to perform operations such as creation, maintenance and use of a data of the database using 
a simple query in almost no time.

Without the database management system, it would be far more difficult for the user to access the data of the database.

16) What are the different types of database management systems?
There are four types of database:

Hierarchical databases (DBMS)
Relational databases (RDBMS)
Network databases (IDMS)
Object-oriented databases
RDBMS is one of the most often used databases due to its easy accessibility and supports regarding complex queries.

17) What is RDBMS?
RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System. It is a database management system based on a relational model. 
RDBMS stores the data into the collection of tables and links those table using the relational operators easily whenever required. 
It facilitates you to manipulate the data stored in the tables by using relational operators. Examples of the relational database management system
are Microsoft Access, MySQL, SQLServer, Oracle database, etc.
